America used to run on IBM. It was the
backbone of business.
[Music]
>> But after getting that jingle stuck in
the heads of millions of Americans in
the late 1980s, Big Blue lost its
swagger.
>> IBM is getting a lot of attention today.
>> More now on that big miss for IBM on
both earnings and revenue.
>> It's been a rough gum. There's no doubt
about it. IBM spent much of the 2010s in
the doldrums, but has made something of
a comeback in the past 5 years. That's
thanks to a lot of the success in its
hybrid cloud business. They've also
leaned heavily into consulting services,
all of which has led to a surge in the
company's share price. That's under the
leadership of CEO Arvin Krishna. He took
the reigns in 2020. And now IBM's
looking to the future with quantum
computing, something I saw firsthand
earlier this summer. I'm standing
outside the Thomas J. Watson IBM
research center in Yorktown Heights, New
York. Believe it or not, this is
probably the leading lab in the world
for quantum computing research. But
betting on the next big thing hasn't
always worked out for IBM. Just look at
AI. In 2011, IBM's Watson AI famously
beat Ken Jennings on Jeopardy.
>> Usually when I play Jeopardy, it's just
for the fun of it. And this time, I feel
like it's all part of some vast
sociotechnological experiment.
>> What is Jericho?
>> Correct.
>> It was kind of downhill from there. It
felt like IBM had lost the plot. Now we
ask Arvin Krishna how IBM is going to
recapture the future through quantum
computing.
Arvin, welcome. Uh, I'm excited to have
you here in part because I was just at
your Thomas J. Watson Research Center in
Yorktown Heights. Uh, very impressive
built in the 60s. Looks like the set of
a Kubric film. And I got to spend time
with your head of quantum hardware,
Jerry Chow. The technology here is
really complicated. I I spent three
hours with Jerry and basically my
summary of how your quantum computing
works is that it's magic. So I I want to
skip over the the hour we could spend
describing how this works and go
straight to applications.
>> Mhm.
>> What applications of your quantum
computing technology are you the most
excited about? I think the reason we are
so excited about quantum is its ability
to solve problems that normal computers
cannot and actually I'll make a stronger
statement will not solve. So if we want
to understand how materials really work
as an example, could we design a
molecule that's better for carbon
sequestration? Could we come up with a
way to fix nitrogen so that we can
increase food production and quality in
the world because that's fertilizers uh
to make it simple. Could we come up with
a quoting to reduce corrosion in
underwater pipes so oil and gas don't
ever leak into the ocean? Those are the
kinds of problems that I'm super excited
about.
>> Right. because you're talking about
doing simulations of quantum effects.
And funny enough, you need a quantum
computer to simulate the way atoms
behave at that level.
>> Richard Fineman's quote, if you want to
simulate nature, you need a quantum
computer. He added some more colorful
language, but for the podcast, I'll stop
there. And to give a bit of intuition,
when you begin to look at these
materials or even simple molecules, you
very quickly get into this 30, 40, 100
electrons and in order to compute them.
That's impossible. If you try to
simulate them on a normal computer, you
begin to need the num amount of memory
exceeds that that is even possible
because 2 to the 200 is a number we just
can't fathom in terms of the amount of
uh state that is needed. Quantum
computers will be able to do that
shortly. So a bunch of other tech
companies are also eyeing quantum,
right? You've got Google, you've got
Microsoft, which um have reported some
pretty exciting breakthroughs in the
past year or so. Why is IBM the company
that's finally going to crack this
technology?
>> So, I'm going to give you a couple of
statements which are somewhat dissonant.
Number one,
>> I love the fact really I really love the
fact that a few dozen or more others are
going after this uh technology.
Why? A it helps to make a market because
if it's just us, you'll begin to
question why should I believe you? Well,
if others aren't trying it, is it really
of any value? So, it actually is
incredibly useful from a client
government as well as I'll say from a
media perspective that there's many
others because I think that defines a
market as opposed to not
>> the race for the future. Right now it
comes to so why would we be a winner of
the race?
>> And you know Tim I'm saying a winner not
the only winner.
>> Sure.
>> I got it. I want my technology teams to
be super excited to be the only winner.
But as long as we are a winner
>> I'm good. Okay. So now why would we do
that? I think a lot of people are
working on incredibly exciting and we
haven't yet used the term cubit but
let's think of that as the fundamental
building block of au quantum computer
not the only but a fundamental building
blocks
of people are working on really exciting
cubid technologies I think that's great
because it opens up many options and
science usually advances by people
standing on each other's shoulders so
actually I think that's wonderful but
now you need to connect thousands of
cubits together because to compute you
need to have let's call it signals flow
from one to the other. Then it's not
enough to have those connected. You need
to be able to read and write to it. Then
you need to be able to have it function
all day, all week, and all month without
needing a team of PhDs to come and tune
it between every single run. Because if
that's the case, that's not really a
computer. And that's really the game
though ultimately reliability.
>> Yeah. Couple of different answers to
what you're describing. Number one, we
need the computer to function. Then
there is the whole question of because
you're trying to operate in very very
tiny energy states. That's the point of
the cooling. Cool it down so that the
normal thermal effects can be taken out
of the picture because they're not going
to happen at these super cold
temperatures. Well, Chris, to be candid,
that's a pretty straightforward problem.
Yeah, it sounds interesting.
>> No big deal. Just colder than deep
space.
>> It sounds like one of those, you know,
really uh you said Kubric, I'll say
Arthur Clock. Same difference there.
>> I read you
>> cuz I'm thinking and channeling 2001 of
Space Odyssey.
>> Open the pod bay doors. Hell,
>> I'm sorry, Dave. I'm afraid I can't do
that. And it begins to sound like some
kind of industrial or maybe
postapocalyptic
uh scenario, but that is actually pretty
standard technology to me. It's arcane.
It's not uh ultra cheap, but neither is
it ultra expensive. So, let's put aside
the cooling and all of the things. The
question becomes, can you take what is
inherently going to be unreliable? I
make that very strong statement at a
single cubit level and stitch it
together using I'll use the word coding
techniques so that what is there is a
lot more resilient to errors. All that
said it's still going to be resilient to
errors for maybe a 100 milliseconds to a
second and then you have to start a
game. So how much competition can you
get done in that amount of time is I
think the singular measurement for
quantum computers.
>> Wow. So a lot of math there, a lot of
science, a lot of science fiction uh
references. We got a lot there. How
more maybe when do you realistically
expect to see a return on IBM's massive
investment in this area? When do you
expect this to be commercial? When do
you expect this to start happening?
>> I would tell you that we are looking at
2029 2030. So that is 4 to 5 years out
for that return that you're talking
about. Now that's the beginning of the
return and then you'll begin to see uh
people beginning to use these. Then I
think a year or two after there'll be
even more and then a year or two after
there'll be even more. We have seen what
happens when technology begins to work
and to scale. The first few years are
remarkably exciting about adoption.
>> For anybody listening, in case they
haven't guessed, you are an engineer.
You are the the first engineer to run
IBM ever. How is that helping you
navigate this time? Because this is a
time of I would say this is a time of
more rapid change for IBM than at any
point in the entire history of me
watching your company. I kind of call it
I'm an unabashed technologist and geek
at heart. I love trying to figure out
and hear explanations of how these
things work because that I think
Christopher answers the question you're
asking. So, how does it help me when you
have these really intrinsic and arcane
technologies that kind of seem like uh
science fiction? Having a bit of the
background, it helps me understand kind
of two things. One, it is going to take
time. So, we're still four years out,
but two, when we get there, I now know
how to scale really, really quickly to
go get it into lots of people's hands.
So, it helps make those decisions. It
also makes the conversation much much
faster with the teams that work on it.
uh because I don't have to go through a
layer of intermediaries or trying to
translate it into different language. I
mean they can talk to me how they want
to. I may understand maybe half of it
but that's better than understanding
only 1% of it.
>> And I just want to flag what you've
already mentioned which is that 2029 is
when you're going to really start
scaling your quantum computing efforts
with Starling. Right.
>> Correct Christopher but for the
following reasons. We got two steps to
do between now and then. Number one, you
got to get these systems much bigger.
Number two, you've got to prove that the
error correction works.
>> Clearly, you've got a lot of momentum.
You were early to quantum. You're kind
of the bell of the ball. But how do you
stay ahead? How do you maintain this
momentum?
>> To maintain the momentum, we have to
grow a very large ecosystem on quantum.
So the use cases multiply and we might
perhaps collect 10% of the value 90% of
the value should go to the people and
the consumers of the technology not to
us. So educating people teaching them
how to use quantum unlocking their
imagination is a big part of what we
have to do. And I'm honest about the
1090 trade-off. I think that that is
where it has to go otherwise the
technology doesn't really scale
>> in the in the today though. I think
investors are very excited about uh the
potential for AI and where they see IBM
playing in that space. That's the hot
technology of the moment in the valley
and in a lot of investors mind since you
became CEO in early 2020. This IBM stock
is just been on a tear, right? I think
your stock in a lot of way is trading
with the kind of premium that you see
with the AI heavyweights out there. And
I wonder I want to talk a little bit
about how you kind of see AI in the
business and how you're balancing kind
of that with your traditional role
because I think one of the things that
IBM has received a lot of praise for
under your tenure is really clarifying
its consulting business, right? uh
you've worked to make IBM really a
facilitator for your clients uh making
this tech transformation not necessarily
steering them into IBM products per se
but uh growing a consulting business and
I wonder with AI doesn't AI potentially
disrupt your consulting business as it
it changes changes work in general uh do
you go to bed afraid at night or excited
at night
>> yeah I am actually excited
I lose no sleep over what AI will do to
our consulting teams. Why do I say that?
Do I fully believe that and we can
debate is it a third is it half is it
2/3 of what people do in consulting that
work will be replaced by AI and the
collection reasoning AI agents all of
that. I'm actually firmly convinced of
that. We are running hard towards making
that happen.
So you then say wait if half the work
happens don't you lose half your
consulting business and I go to no the
exact opposite happens if we run towards
it that means we are more productive in
giving people consulting help if you are
more productive history has shown that
the more productive company gains market
share because if you offer higher
quality things at a lower unit cost you
tend to take market share and if you
take market share you'll actually win
more customers. So that is why I believe
that that is the route we need to go and
go at it hard and that is how we are
going to go win for AI in and for big
company adoption or just company
adoption in general. It it seems like
we're still in this area this era mostly
experimental uh trying to figure out how
this might be useful. We we're seeing
some early early things. Uh but I'm
curious what you're hearing from
customers and how that conversation is
changing on what they want from AI uh in
the now and in the next few years in the
tangible.
So let's acknowledge the vast majority
as in over 80% of the clients we talk to
will acknowledge they're still in the
era of AI experimentation. You know,
typical conversation goes like, "How
many AI PC's are you doing? I'm using
proof of concepts as the jargon for
experiments. Oh, I'm doing a hundred.
I'm so proud of it. I got every function
doing a little bit." Okay. How many of
them do you think are going to scale?
And they kind of look at the shoes like
one of them told me, "Well, I think
maybe three." I said, like, so is the
flaw in your design of how you're using
AI? And then they begin to acknowledge
and that is the push now on the ROI
point. ROI is only achieved when a
technology begins to give value back to
the business. Doing the experiment has
no value in itself except to prove
feasibility. So they've all begun to ask
the question now how do I scale and how
do I get that value? That means I need
common tool sets across the different
experiments. I need to think about some
of the questions up front like what is
the life cycle of a model? What is the
governance? How do I make sure that I am
uh correct about privacy and all the
other aspects that we always need when
we are dealing with data and with
critical functions. And so if I was to
use a sports analogy, I would tell you
AI is in the first innings. So players
are on the field. You know who's who's
going to play, but it's still early
early to see how the game uh works out
and how it goes along.
>> You know, listening to you talk about
quantum. I mean, clearly you're excited
about it, right? But I also feel like
you're tempering your enthusiasm a
little bit. The old IBM perhaps, and I
think of kind of the AI IBM talking
about Watson.
>> Watson, who is Agatha Christie,
>> the appearance on Jeopardy, there was
all those ads.
>> Correct. Yet, Watson, I think,
ultimately was a little bit
disappointing to a lot of folks. Uh, it
was maybe ahead of its time. And this
time around with Quantum, it feels like
you're trying to walk a line between
being excited and enthusiastic, but also
not overpromising. And I wonder what
that is like for you, especially in an
era where nobody is tempering any
enthusiasm, especially when it comes to
the next technology, right? I mean,
we're seeing sky-high valuations and
huge amounts of money pouring into
technology on the hope on the hope that
it'll happen. Look, we're not afraid of
marketing and sales. I think IBM is
reasonably well known for being willing
to do that, but I want to do it through
the lens of my client and the lens of
the people who use it. When I have that
lens and they're talking about the value
they derive from it, you'll find us not
at all shy or abashed about going there.
But right now it would be us describing
what's possible, not the end user
describing how excited they are by what
they could do with it. That's kind of
the change that I want to bring to IBM
in terms of how we talk about things.
Absolutely. We will amplify it and we
are not shy about where we are really
really good but I want it through the
lens of the people who are getting
value.
>> Yeah. Enthusiasm, of course, that's
super important for your stock price to
make sure your employees feel like
they're working for someplace that's
continuing to grow. But that's all of
tech, right? I mean, everybody's growing
their revenues right now, if not their
profits. However, a lot of that money is
going into talent. You've seen Mark
Zuckerberg credibly offer hund00 million
pay packages to potential AI
researchers. Google, of course, they
spent billions on a code completion
tool. How do you compete where there's
this overheated environment where
everyone wants this talent? I jokingly
asked Jerry, "Have you had a hundred
million dollar offer yet?" He said,
"No." But seriously, how are you going
to hold on to talent? Maybe uh a bit of
experience helps here. This is not the
first time we've gone through these.
This happens every 10 or 20 years in the
technology industry. The internet era
was identical. I remember it deeply back
in 97 to 99 and 2000. All these same
things happened um when mobile came
around the same thing was talked about
very early. Now with AI the same thing
is happening. No doubt it'll happen on
quantum also. The way you do it and the
way you avoid uh sort of I'll call it
with irrational reactions because some
of these I think are actually irrational
reactions. Um is that you have to have a
deep enough bench and you got to ask the
question so why do these incredible
people want to come work with you?
And on quantum they come and work with
us because they can work with an
incredible team that has justifiably
made more progress than anywhere else.
So they'd rather be part of a winning
team than part of a team that has a much
higher chance of losing. I actually
think that that is the same thing that
happened in AI. The people who are in
these collections were part of the
winning teams. Well, now that they have
won in some sense,
I would say maybe tongue and cheek.
those who are on the losing side think
they can buy victory.
History shows that usually does not turn
out to be the case. So yeah. So I
noticed that your research center
there's a distinct lack of nap pods or
ping pong tables. There's no slides
between floors. It really felt like
you're attracting serious people who
want to work on serious difficult
problems.
And how do you do that as opposed to,
you know, attracting people with free
kombucha on tap?
>> Well, we want people who want to work.
Quantum, as you pointed out, has been a
long journey. So, let's talk about it as
10 because 10 years as ago is when we
began to scale and go forward. But we
knew it would be a 10-year journey. So,
we want to attract the people who have
that grit in mind. That is something
they can do at very few places because
we are committed to solve these really
hard problems because if you do and I'm
saying if then the prize is massive okay
in a lot of places their horizon is 1 2
3 years that does not work and so I have
a huge focus on saying what are the one
or two things because you can't do it
across all things that have that kind of
hardness and then the price is
significant and that brings value back
to our shareholders, to all our
employees at that point because when
quantum begins to scale, our consulting
teams can take quantum into clients.
People are going to build quantum
applications and a lot more will
benefit. But we need to do that and
actually to some sense buffer the team
that's working on it for those years
until it reaches commercial viability.
>> We're in this interesting moment. I
think we clearly we have these big names
that the big upstarts open AI and
whatnot. uh but we also have some big
names who are making comebacks right I I
think if we go back 10 years 15 years
ago uh Microsoft may have seemed like
its best days were behind it but has
really reinvented itself in a very
dramatic way with cloud computing uh
being its adoption of AI and I think IBM
also uh a generation ago may have seemed
like its best days were behind it you
were in the process of reinventing it
for a new era do Do you see any
parallels between kind of how IBM um is
doing it and what Microsoft has done? Is
there a way to be success successfully
pivot to become a new behemoth?
>> Well, there are a few common principles
just to make it straightforward.
Number one, if you're overly vetted to
your past and you find it really hard to
let go, then effectively you're forcing
your engineers and your sales teams to
be very very defensive in front of
clients and that is not usually a good
practice. So if you think about
Microsoft with Windows or if you think
about IBM with some of our legacy
software from the 70s and 80s, that's a
problem. But if I have incumbency, can I
deeply understand what my clients want
and give them what they will need for
the future even if they haven't fully
realized it? Let's lean in there in
addition to some of what we give them.
And then don't be defensive. Be willing
to give up some of what is not
important. The not being defensive, I
think, is the biggest thing. I mean,
Microsoft's unlock was when Windows was
not the only thing they did. That turned
out to be an incredible unlock.
>> Yeah. Satia Nadella, head of cloud,
became CEO and then they were off to the
races. So, if we take a big step back
here,
what is your long game? What's the
bigger strategy here? Are you going to
grow IBM until you're part of the
Magnificent 7,
>> the Mag?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Mag 8. Is IBM going to be in
there? Of course, there's still time for
Tesla to drop out, so it can still be
seven.
>> Shots fired.
But really, I mean, are you going to
just maintain by occupying your niche
and quantum? How, in other words, is IBM
going to survive another 114 years? Our
goal is to grow. Grow means grow for our
clients and grow for our employees. And
that does mean revenue growth. It also
is important to grow in terms of
shareholder value because that is the
commitment. We are a public company. We
have to grow for our shareholders on the
S&P 500.
We are now I think number 28 depends on
the day 27 28 29 30. So let's say we've
come up 30 spots over 5 years.
I don't know you can begin to
extrapolate from there and say that was
not maybe an accident that was a
strategy. And so where does that begin
to go? Uh let me acknowledge that as you
head up towards the instead of calling
it the max 7, let's just call it the top
10, uh maybe it becomes tougher and
tougher. You're reaching rarified air
over there and it's not that those
people are sitting still and not doing
their own uh upward climb. Probably
gives you enough to get a sense of our
own ambition.
>> Absolutely, Arvin. I appreciate you
being so generous with your time and so
generous with your insight.
>> Christopher, Tim, pleasure talking with
the both of you. Thank you.
>> We reached out to Microsoft which
declined a comment. Stick around. Tim
and I break down what we just heard from
IBM CEO Arvin Krishna.
Mims, I I think we should tell the
viewers, the listeners at home that you
were especially excited for this
episode. Why was that?
Well, technically you booked this
episode, Tim.
>> Oh, did I?
>> No, I was excited for this episode. And
the simple reason was as I started to
dig in, I was surprised that a company
that frankly I had kind of written off
as just slowly uh riding off another
sunset as a consultancy, you know,
>> they turned out to be ahead in quantum
computing, which was something that was
like cold fusion, right? We had always
been told it was just around the corner.
Suddenly it was real and IBM of all
companies was doing it. That was a real
mystery. It's super interesting, right?
A former technological heavyweight. I
mean, this was computers, right? and but
it's been struggling for decades really
in a lot of ways until this hybrid cloud
strategy consulting and his appointment
in in 2020 was a really big big moment
of change but I think that you brought
to this your usual and necessary
skepticism right so it was interesting
to hear you say why should we believe
that quantum will be any different I'm
just curious where that skepticism came
from I
beyond just your childhood,
>> right? Just kind of how I was uh brought
up,
>> your personality, your DNA,
>> right?
>> Well, I mean, IBM has been on the
vanguard of the next big thing before,
right, with with AI. They did such a
good job selling us on Watson. I mean,
you thought Watson was going to be your
best buddy, right? Solving all the
world's problems.
>> IBM's made a lot of promises. Watson has
been a decadesl long egg on its face
moment for the company. It was one
reason that I had kind of written it off
because I knew pretty intimately how
early they were to AI and also how they
had kind of made the wrong bet. I mean I
think at a fundamental level they bet on
a set of technologies that just got
superseded by things that were happening
at places like Google,
>> you know. So, we ended the conversation
asking whether IBM can be part of the
Mac 7. You know, I don't know if it'll
kick out Nvidia or Tesla, you know, you
decide. But is making this big bet now
on Quantum, will that help big blue do
things differently this time compared to
its Watson experiment? I think that IBM
has the potential to grow considerably
in the short term, not because of
quantum, right? If we're talking about
the year 2100 and we've fundamentally
changed the way we do all of computing,
yeah, maybe whatever it's called then,
but right now that growth is because of
hybrid cloud and consulting as we talked
and since we recorded this interview in
late July, IBM is ranked somewhere
between 33rd and 40th
largest company by market cap in the S&P
500. So, still quite a bit of ways to go
if it's ever going to catch up to the
Mag 7. Yeah. But if and when that
happens, you can say you heard it here
first on Bold Names. Bold names, where
bold things happen.
I don't know about that kicker, too.
Let's workshop that a little bit more.